# fake_news_classification

# Introduction

The goal of the project is to correctly determine whether the given text is generated by a human or computer. The fake news dataset is preprocessed and transformed before training. A base model with Logistic Regression is achieved with a test accuracy of  71.77% with inverse regularization strength C=100. In later stages, Parameter tuning will be applied to two prediction models to achieve higher accuracy. Models with basic Logistic Regression and SGD classifiers are applied in Random Search with 5-fold cross-validation. 

For the SGD method, the best test accuracy of 71.90% is achieved with parameters of 1e-5 learning rate and log loss function with no loss penalty. 
For the Logistic Regression method, 71.93% test accuracy is achieved with liblinear solver, l2 penalty, and 54.5 inverse regularization strength. 

# Dataset
Fake News dataset is composed of two columns. The text column stores the text we examine, and the Label column represents whether it is generated by a computer or a human. Data in the text column is preprocessed before applying it to the model. All the text data is transformed into lowercase, and any special characters or symbols are removed from the text. In the next step, the text data is standardized with CountVectorizer and TF-IDF Transformer to reduce any meaningless wordings. 

For the modeling phase, three models are achieved to test out accuracy. The first one is the basic Logistic Regression model achieved by searching for the highest validation accuracy among different inverse regularization strength C. The second model is achieved with the Logistic Regression model with random searches in more parameters of loss penalty, solver, and C. And the third model is achieved with the SGD classifier with random searches in parameters in loss, loss penalty, and learning rate. And the test dataset will be used to compare the test accuracy among three models.

# Results

# Discussion
The test accuracy (~72%) does not change much between the basic model and improved models with parameter tunings. Since a Random Search is applied for parameter tunings, there are possibilities that the search method did not find the optimal parameters with limited max search iterations. In order to increase the accuracy, one could increase the max iterations allowed for searching, as well as add more options for possible parameters. But the tradeoff would be a significantly longer searching phase. 
